1. cd nameofthedirectory :takes you the paticular directory
	cd.. :takes you to the parents directory of the current directory
	cd/ :takes you to entire system root directory
	cd../ :takes you 2 directory up
	cd ~ :brings to the home directory
2. mkdir directory :creates a new directory
3. ls :lists all the files 
	ls -al :list all the hidden files 
	ls -lt :sorts list diplaying recently modified
	ls -r :lists the file in reverse order
4. pwd :shows current working directory
5. whoami :displays username
6. passwd :changes password
7. mount :shows all the mounted devices
8. chmod rwe :changes the mode
	 4 read, 2 write, 1 execute, 0 no permission
9. cat>filename :creates an empty file
10. cat * :displays all the contents of a file
11. vi filename :opens the file using vi editor
	 i :insert mode
	esc key :for normal mode
	ctrl+Z :to stop vi editor 
	:q! :exits editor without saving
	:wq! :saves the edits and exits editor
12. rm filename :deletes a file 
	rm -r directory :deletes a directory
	rm -f filename :force removes a file
	rm -rf directory :force removes a directory
13. cp file1 file2 :copies all the content of file1 to file2

14. grep stringtomatch filename :searches string and prints matching lines 
	grep stringtomatch filename1 filename2 :searches in multiple files
	grep stringtomatch * :searches all the files  
	grep -i stringtomatch filename :ignores case
	grep -v stringtomatch filename :inverts the lists (first print all the unmatching)
15. tar filename: compresses a file (archived)
	tar -x filename :untar a file
16. gzip filename: compresses a file (filename.gz)
	gzip -9 filename : specifying the compression level (1-9 with 9 being the max and 6 being default)
17. echo typesomething :displays a line of string like print
	echo -e \b :removes spaces in between the strings
	echo -e \n :creates new line for each string
	echo “type text here”>>filename :will insert the typed text into the file
18. SHELL :allows you to switch to a new interface
19. su [username] : switches to the username entered (requires password of target acc)
20. sudo [command] : allows logged users to execute commands that require root privileges. 
			requires password for user running the command.
			can only be used by users in sudodoers group.
21. usermod -aG sudo [username] :adds user to the sudodoers group
22. mv file1 file2 :moves files or directory from one place to another
23. Touch filename :creates a new file 






